# 1.x to 2.0 Migration Guide

## Overview

There are a number of breaking changes from 1.x to 2.0, mostly related to the experience trait system. If you haven't implemented any custom actions or traits, the migration will involve little or no changes in your code.

## General Changes

### Removed

- Properties are no longer supported for anonymous users. `Appcues/anonymous(properties:)` has been superseded by ``Appcues/anonymous()``. If you require properties, use ``Appcues/identify(userID:properties:)``.
- Extensions on `SwiftUI.Font.Design` and `SwiftUI.Font.Weight`.

### Changed

- ``AppcuesNavigationDelegate`` is now responsible for handling universal links in addition to scheme links. Consequently, ``AppcuesNavigationDelegate/navigate(to:openExternally:completion:)`` has a new parameter `openExternally` which indicates whether a link is expecting to be opened in an external browser.

## Custom Action and Trait Changes

### Removed

- Extension on `Dictionary<String, Any>` to decode plugin configuration values. Use the new ``AppcuesExperiencePluginConfiguration`` approach detailed below.

### Renamed

A number of types were renamed to have a standardized prefix of `Appcues`:

| Old Name                              | New Name                                                  |
| ------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ExperienceAction`                    | ``AppcuesExperienceAction``                               |
| `ExperienceTrait`                     | ``AppcuesExperienceTrait``                                |
| `StepDecoratingTrait`                 | ``AppcuesStepDecoratingTrait``                            |
| `ContainerCreatingTrait`              | ``AppcuesContainerCreatingTrait``                         |
| `ContainerDecoratingTrait`            | ``AppcuesContainerDecoratingTrait``                       |
| `BackdropDecoratingTrait`             | ``AppcuesBackdropDecoratingTrait``                        |
| `WrapperCreatingTrait`                | ``AppcuesWrapperCreatingTrait``                           |
| `PresentingTrait`                     | ``AppcuesPresentingTrait``                                |
| `ExperienceContainerViewController`   | ``AppcuesExperienceContainerViewController``              |
| `lifecycleHandler`                    | ``AppcuesExperienceContainer/eventHandler``               |
| `ExperienceContainerLifecycleHandler` | ``AppcuesExperienceContainerEventHandler``                |
| `PageMonitor`                         | ``AppcuesExperiencePageMonitor``                          |
| `TraitError`                          | ``AppcuesTraitError``                                     |
| `ExperienceTraitLevel`                | ``AppcuesExperiencePluginConfiguration/Level-swift.enum`` |

### Changed

- ``AppcuesExperienceTrait`` now has a new ``AppcuesExperienceTrait/metadataDelegate`` which supports sharing data between trait types and instances. See <doc:Traits> for more details.
- The functionality of decorating traits set at the step level have been updated to apply only to the step on which they are set. New `undecorate()` functions are called to allow a trait to remove its decorations from the container or backdrop:
    - ``AppcuesContainerDecoratingTrait`` added ``AppcuesContainerDecoratingTrait/undecorate(containerController:)``. This function should reverse the decoration applied in ``AppcuesContainerDecoratingTrait/decorate(containerController:)``
    - ``AppcuesBackdropDecoratingTrait`` added ``AppcuesBackdropDecoratingTrait/undecorate(backdropView:)``. This function should reverse the decoration applied in ``AppcuesBackdropDecoratingTrait/decorate(backdropView:)``.
- ``AppcuesContainerCreatingTrait`` changed it's  ``AppcuesContainerCreatingTrait/createContainer(for:with:)``, which now provides a configured instance of ``AppcuesExperiencePageMonitor`` instead of requiring the trait to create this object.
    - ``AppcuesExperiencePageMonitor`` no longer has a public init `init(numberOfPages:currentPage:)`.
- Appcues trait and action initialization has be revised with ``AppcuesExperiencePluginConfiguration`` supporting `Decodable` models for additional flexibility and robustness.
    - For an ``AppcuesExperienceAction``, ``AppcuesExperienceAction/init(configuration:)`` provides a `configuration` object on which ``AppcuesExperiencePluginConfiguration/decode(_:)`` can be called with a `Decodable` type.
    - For an ``AppcuesExperienceTrait``, ``AppcuesExperienceTrait/init(configuration:)`` provides a `configuration object` on which ``AppcuesExperiencePluginConfiguration/decode(_:)`` can be called with a `Decodable` type. The former `level` property provided in the trait init is now available from ``AppcuesExperiencePluginConfiguration/level-swift.property``. 
